the weird thing about fomalhaut b isn't
its name
but the fact that it doesn't exist it
was first photographed back in 2008
and was a sensation scientists believe
it to be a massive exoplanet
but it turned out to have low mass and
it's falling to pieces of dust at the
moment
it acts like a massive dust cloud
gliese 1214b is quite extraordinary
with its steamy environment wait but
steam is the result of water evaporation
isn't it
in fact this hot planet is full of
water-like substances
it's definitely hotter than our planet
with its 250
to 540 degrees fahrenheit it can also be
an
ocean planet still very little is known
about it
since it was first discovered only back
in 2009
if you ever wondered what it's like to
walk on ice and hot coals at the same
time
meet gliese 436b being
extremely close to its sun the
neptune-sized exoplanet
boasts temperatures hotter than a
blazing oven
and yet it's covered in ice which burns
incessantly
this ice is much denser due to the
enormous gravity of the planet
staying solid even under extreme
conditions
and not melting away but gliese
seems a nice place with quite mild
climate compared to an oven-like corrose
7b
its day-to-day temperature is over 4000
degrees fahrenheit
combined with the rocky surface it
presents a kind of
underworld landscape the rocks on the
ground bubble and boil
evaporating in the atmosphere where they
cool down
and eventually fall back on the surface
in a brimstone
rain the saddest thing about caro 7b
is that it might have once been a gas
giant whose atmosphere melted away from
the
heat leaving only the scorched core
caro x03b is neither as hot as the
previous one
nor as cold as many other planets it's a
gas giant
similar in size to jupiter yet 20 times
denser
it makes this exoplanet's gravity weigh
down
on everything on its surface 50 times
more than it would on earth
stepping on it would be your ultimate
doom because you'd be immediately
crushed by the density of its atmosphere
tress to be is a planet where night
never ends
and it's not your regular night with
stars shining in the beautiful skies
here it's pitch dark and scorching hot
tres 2b is a gas giant roughly 1.5 times
more massive than jupiter
and its surface absorbs light better
than charcoal
it might also have a faint dark red glow
because of its burning air
which is as hot as fresh lava
it may mistakenly seem that saturn does
have an earthen friendly environment
some layers of this giant gas sphere
actually have
quite nice temperature conditions if you
dive into saturn
you'll get to a layer with liquid
molecules with 32 degrees fahrenheit
which seems like earth anyway it's only
one minor layer
and the rest of the planet is freezing
cold so
you'll never be able to land on saturn
and be the same human being
like you are on earth but you can become
a sort of snowball there
or an ice crystal as for jupiter
you might have already guessed that
there's no solid land
this planet is made of hydrogen and
helium so it's another gas sphere
you can't walk on it's a bit different
from saturn though
you wouldn't dive in jupiter you'd
rather float on it
this planet is like a giant cloud and if
you ever landed on it
it would be like walking through a super
thick fog
the temperatures fluctuate a lot here
it's freezing on the surface
unlike saturn the deeper you dive the
more scorching
this gas sphere gets
oxygen is usually viewed as an element
that might bring life to a planet
but this is definitely not the case for
osiris
scientists were shocked to find oxygen
on this planet
or rather around it because it's eight
times
closer to its star than mercury is to
the sun
this extreme distance makes osiris a
living melting pot where
anything that could burn will it's also
responsible for a very short orbit of
the planet around its star
a year on osiris is just 3.5 days on
earth
to boot the atmosphere of the planet is
constantly blown
and melted away by the heat from its sun
wasp 76b is another weirdly dangerous
planet
where it rains no not wasps
it's so hot out there over 4 300 degrees
fahrenheit
that it vaporizes iron so
it rains iron it's another gas giant
just like jupiter its extreme proximity
to the sun divides the planet in two
one half has a never-ending day while
the other
has eternal night meet wasp-12b
one of the weirdest and saddest planets
out there
the enormous gravity of its star
combined with the planet consisting
mostly of gas
result in the star slowly devouring its
protege
wasp 12b has already taken the form of
an egg
stretched towards its merciless sun and
unable to do anything with its condition
in another 10 million years the planet
will inevitably succumb
to the voracious star's appetite
no list of the weirdest planets could do
without mentioning venus
the earth's evil twin the second planet
from the sun
has an atmosphere so thick and full of
clouds
that its surface is much hotter than
that of mercury
despite being somewhat farther from the
sun volcanic eruptions
constantly thrash venus its gravity is
almost 100 times
stronger than ours and those clouds i
mentioned are not made of water
but of sulfuric acid which condenses and
rains down on the ground adding to the
inferno
but even if you were brave or crazy
enough to try to pass through those
clouds you probably couldn't
the winds up there are as strong as some
of the most powerful hurricanes
back on earth one more freezing cold
planet
is the one i dare not pronounce although
the host star
is not too far away it's a small and
rather cool red dwarf
whose light and heat barely even reach
the planet
the temperatures out there fall as low
as negative 370 degrees fahrenheit
which is only marginally warmer than
absolute zero
the exoplanet is thus dark gloomy
and covered in eternal ice still if it
has a rocky core
it might generate some heat so there is
a chance that deep below the frozen
surface
we could build a nice thermal spa hotel
for space travelers
the next planet that sounds like a
tongue twister
is the only exoplanet in the orbit of
its star
and at first glance it looks quite
pretty
blue and white swirls making up wondrous
patterns on the surface
but these pleasant colors actually come
from hard
silicate particles in the planet's
atmosphere which means
it rains glass here but the worst thing
is
that winds reached the speed of 5 400
miles per hour
or almost mach 7. for comparison
the fastest wind speed on earth was 254
miles per hour
over 20 times less thus the glass
falling from the sky travels
horizontally at hypersonic speeds
shredding everything in its path
here's another name we'll just leave on
the screen thank you
this magnetic rogue planet let's call it
simp
has probably the best auroras in the
universe
putting our northern lights to shame
dimidium located roughly 50 light years
away from our solar system
is a planet hostile to any living thing
on many accounts
it's tidally locked to its sun which
means one of its sides
is always facing the star while the
other is always turned away
the hot side is heated to over 1800
degrees fahrenheit
perpetually blown over with winds
reaching 600 miles per hour
despite dominium being a gas giant it
has a large amount of iron in it
which melts and evaporates in the
atmosphere creating clouds
and when these cool down they fall on
the surface in the infernal rain of
molten iron
in the star system of 55 cancry there
are five
planets four of which are gas giants
similar to jupiter and saturn
but the fifth one or rather the first
because it's closest to the star
is different in a most horrible way 55
cancri e
is so close to its sun that half the
planet's surface
is a literal ocean of molten lava
the other half is an eternal darkness
because it never sees the sun
the planet is always turned to its star
with one side
and between the scorching and the dark
there's the twilight zone
a thin strip of gloomy nothingness
the system whose name i wouldn't even
try to pronounce
has three exoplanets which are all being
slowly destroyed
by their own star it happens because
that star
is not a regular one it's a pulsar
a rapidly spinning core of an exploded
star
it creates powerful electromagnetic
pulses in several directions
while rotating at several thousand times
per second
as a result the planets orbiting this
deceased
star are slowly being eaten away and
will eventually
disappear entirely
[Music]